Document Multi-View and Operation AI Investigations (preview) (#36582)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/real_user_monitoring/ai_investigations/multi_view_ai_investigation.md

---
title: Multi-View AI Investigation
description: "Run an agentic investigation across views to find root causes for a slow Core Web Vital."
further_reading:
  - link: "/real_user_monitoring/ai_investigations/"
    tag: "Documentation"
    text: "AI Investigations overview"
  - link: "/real_user_monitoring/ai_investigations/single_view_ai_investigation/"
    tag: "Documentation"
    text: "Single-View AI Investigation"
  - link: "/real_user_monitoring/application_monitoring/browser/optimizing_performance/"
    tag: "Documentation"
    text: "Optimize page performance with RUM"
---

{{< callout url="https://www.datadoghq.com/product-preview/rum-multi-view-ai-investigation/" header="Join the Preview!">}}
  Multi-View AI Investigation is in Preview.
{{< /callout >}}

## Overview

> Multi-View AI Investigation runs an agentic root-cause analysis across a sample of views that share a slow Core Web Vital. Where [Single-View AI Investigation][1] explains why one session was slow, Multi-View AI Investigation explains why an entire (view × vital) pair is consistently slow across users. Use it from the Optimization page when you are looking at a specific page and a specific vital and want to know what to fix first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Multi-View AI Investigation runs an agentic root-cause analysis across a sample of views that share a slow Core Web Vital. While [Single-View AI Investigation][1] explains why one view was slow, Multi-View AI Investigation explains why an entire (view × vital) pair is consistently slow across users. Use it from the Optimization page when you have identified a specific page and vital and want to know what to fix first.
```

Author: Suggestion applied, thanks!

The investigation runs at the (view × vital) granularity and is available for the following vitals:

- Loading Time
- Largest Contentful Paint
- First Contentful Paint
- Interaction to Next Paint

## Launch an investigation

1. Open the [Optimization page][2] for your application.
2. Select a view and one of the supported vitals.
3. The Optimization page surfaces two elements for the selected (view × vital) pair:
   - A **summary** at the top with an at-a-glance overview of the issues detected.
   - Up to three **recommendation cards** below the summary. Each card represents a candidate root cause, ordered by impact.
4. Click **Investigate** on a card to launch the agent on that issue.

<!-- TODO: Screenshot — Optimization page showing the summary and ranked recommendation cards for a (view × vital) pair. -->

## Data analyzed

The agent groups its findings into four diagnostic types:

> | Diagnostic              | What is examined                                                                                              |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Source              | What is examined                                                                                              |
```

Author: Suggestion applied, thanks!

> ## Data analyzed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What the agent investigates
```

| Long tasks              | Long-running tasks that block the main thread during the vital window.                                         |

The richer the data available, the more precise the analysis. Correlating RUM with [APM Traces][3] and enabling [Browser profiling][4] helps the agent attribute findings to specific code paths.

## Read the results

When you click **Investigate** on a recommendation card, a side panel opens and the agent streams its analysis in real time. Each investigation produces:

- **A step-by-step timeline** describing how the metric is built from your application code: which resources load, when scripts execute, and where time is spent during the vital window.
- **A root-cause explanation** with the supporting evidence the agent considered.
- **A code-level finding** when the agent can attribute the issue to a specific file or function.

<!-- TODO: Screenshot — Multi-View AI Investigation side panel with timeline, root-cause explanation, and code-level finding. -->

## Take action

After an investigation completes, you can act on findings without leaving the panel:

> - **Fix with Bits**: opens the Bits AI dev assistant with the investigation context pre-filled to generate a code fix from your IDE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fix with Bits**: Opens the Bits AI dev assistant with the investigation context pre-filled to generate a code fix from your IDE.
```

Author: Suggestion applied, thanks!

> - **Save to a Notebook**: exports the full timeline and findings to a [Notebook][5] to share with your team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Save to a Notebook**: Exports the full timeline and findings to a [Notebook][5] to share with your team.
```

Author: Suggestion applied, thanks!

> ## Platform support

Reviewer: this is too low in the doc given the importance. it should probably go between ## Overview and ## Launch an investigation with the header ## Prerequisites

Author: Suggestion applied, thanks!
